so that's it that's really all I had to
say about a boss who steal this video hi
my name is Ken today I kind of want to
bring some attention to a channel that
I've really been getting into the
channel it's called a boss lay seal I
apologize if I'm butchering the name
uh-huh new yen
base out guys Zinnemann begins with the
illusion that i'm working my way through
this stack of books but in fact it's
simply the case that some of the books
have been taken out of this stack to sit
underneath the microphone I'm gonna be
reading the same stack of books for
quite a while for better force um the
other week I had an assignment during
the first week of new classes to come in
and talk about a book that had
influenced me in some profound and
meaningful way relevant to the course
and one of my first thoughts was
actually to talk about a book that I had
in my mind lately about the history of
cocaine and the philosophy of science
I'm just gonna say a little bit about
that here to start with an anecdote
though the first time I encountered
cocaine was actually in my second year
of high school one of my high school
teachers was apparently a cocaine user I
would say a regular cocaine user rather
than a cocaine addict but obviously I'm
not in a position to really know when
she was fired and she was fired somewhat
suddenly and unexpectedly the story was
that it was for cocaine use and I can't
even say that was a rumor that was just
what I was told in point of fact and
from the first day I met her her
behavior was erratic in a very peculiar
way that I later came to recognize as a
sign of cocaine use and she you know
sniffed at her nose in a strange way was
constantly fussing about her nose would
leave the classroom and come back
suddenly a lot more cheerful and so on
she had all the signs of hey of a coke
user
and as the same when she was fired that
was the reason given that was my second
year of high school so in many ways
mentally I was still a kid and her
erratic behavior I mean she gave
lectures in a kind of unexpected and
irreverent and directionless manner but
some of the lecture she gave that had no
relation to the the sentiment of the
course actually we're very memorable and
very wise and really stayed with me but
you know at that age like sit down a
class and I you know I often wouldn't
even be making eye contact with her
while she was giving these lectures sort
of look down at the desk you know very
different from the way you you actively
listen to slang and learned something as
an adult I remember one day she came in
and I gave this lecture on rape and
freedom and how you know living in a
democracy in a country with freedom
necessarily entailed fear and taking
risks and and she traveled around the
world and she would prefer to live in a
country that was dangerous and where
there was the danger of rape than living
in a country that was absolutely safe
and we're basically patriarchy was
constantly protecting women and
separating women from the
rough-and-tumble of society but where
there was no risk of rape really bizarre
lecture and and probably inappropriate
for a high school classroom but
obviously it was also delivered with
passion she talked about her experiences
traveling in Latin America possibly
where she was introduced to cocaine and
you know while she was saying it you're
sitting there as a as a kid thinking why
the hell is she talking but later on you
look back and think that was one of the
most interesting days I had in high
school we had a book that did change my
life in a somewhat subtle but profound
way and I can't really cite the book
here the title was just Freud and
cocaine and in googling it now I found
there's actually more than one book
titled Freud and cocaine so I'm not sure
which it is but this book it included
anecdotes in general about
the history of the scientific response
to the discovery of cocaine with
comparisons to the discovery of heroin
opium and I think some brief comparison
- to the discovery of tobacco but I had
actually read about the scientific
response to tobacco just in in courses
and classes previously so that that was
not that was one comparison I already
had in mind there's this remarkable
pattern which you get even with tobacco
people thought tobacco was a wonder drug
people thought tobacco could cure
deafness by blowing tobacco into your
ears tobacco when it's applied to your
extremities or your senses one of the
effects is simply causing tingling and
all these magical curative properties
were attributed to tobacco basically
because of this tingling alone now
cocaine has effects far beyond causing
tingling but tingling and numbness are
one part of the medically real effect of
cocaine and what this study showed this
book demonstrated was that Sigmund Freud
at a crucial early phase of his career
attributed the efficacy of his therapies
his experimental therapies really to the
effects of cocaine to massively simplify
what's quite a complicated and
fascinating chapter in the world's
history one of the effects of cocaine is
to cause is localized anaesthetic
localized anesthesia so when it's
applied to the nose one of the effects
is numbness in the nose now Freud had a
theoretical approach the nose many
mammals their sexual response is linked
to smell is linked to the nose and Freud
thought that when he was giving his
patients cocaine he was just causing
localized anesthesia in the nose he
didn't think the other drug effects were
happening so it's led to and it's not
complicated it's just difficult to kind
of give a reasonable summary of it this
led to him firstly massively overrating
the efficacy of his talking cure at an
early stage and in his early days it
wasn't just talking cure he was playing
around with he was fooling around with a
number of experimental therapy shall we
say but if you administer cocaine to a
patient and then talk to them about
their emotional problems or use any
other therapeutic method and then they
come back to you the next session and
say wow you know after our session last
week I felt like all my problems have
been lifted off my shoulder
and and this is very important - to
Freud and suddenly I felt the relief of
all my sexual inhibitions and my sex
life with my husband or wife
dramatically changed for the better
etcetera now this is of course
reflective of short-term cocaine use
often comes with a seeming increase in
libido or at least the disappearance of
sexual inhibitions
long-term cocaine use is associated with
declining
sexual appetite and often coke addicts
lose all interest in sex entirely mm-hmm
but for Freud and how he thought about
psychological health and the role of
sexuality this led directly to his
belief that all neurosis in principle is
sexual and - his whole approach to the
mind and therapy uh now look okay so
this is a simple scientific anecdote
although one that was massively
influential in history of the world
because Sigmund Freud went on to found a
sort of philosophy of mind that
influenced millions of people and
impacted millions of lives through
psychotherapy and so on but in my life I
mean I got to see some of the same
themes play out again with the Western
infatuation with
SSRI drugs with serotonin inhibiting
drugs the various forms of
antidepressants and all kinds of fad
theories sometimes based on a scrap of
real science that basically come down to
what's called the enhanced
osebo effect you can actually see a lot
about the enhance placebo effects on
YouTube it's one of James Randy's
favorite themes I can't think offhand of
something really good he posted about
that but the point is here the placebo
effect alone just means you're given a
drug that has no effect whatsoever but
enhance placebo is that I give you a
drug that has an irrelevant effect so if
I give you a drug that just causes
tingling then you can feel it working
right you can feel an effect of some
kind and then it's very easy for people
to attribute all kinds of changes in
their lives to the effect of that drug
because it has a non-zero effect it's
not just a placebo
it's an enhanced placebo effect for my
generation the threat of nuclear war was
the single most powerful symbol of
science of the philosophy of science the
invention of the atom bomb and then the
decisive conclusion to the United States
is war with Japan with the destruction
of Hiroshima and Nagasaki by nuclear
arms for me personally as a child and as
a very young teenager vivisection the
use of experimentation on animals very
decisive and important aspect of
philosophy of science later I read other
works of I'm not gonna get into the
stuff at read when I was a university
student or an adult obviously once
you're more sophisticated these things
change again but I mean reading that
work on cocaine and Sigmund Freud in
terms of the the procedures of science
and how scientific discoveries or
seeming scientific discoveries can
change the way a whole society perceives
itself that was a that was a very
powerful insight in my life without
adding too much that length this video
to talk about the implications for the
rest of my life I'd point out that very
clearly this relates to the fact that I
never
was seduced by the pseudo-scientific
claims that existed within Buddhism from
day one of my involvement with Buddhism
are regarded the claims of psychological
and semi-scientific effects of
meditation with skepticism with true
skepticism which is still so hard to
find and you can find recent reflections
of mind in my videos attacking sam
harris who's shown himself to be a
shameful imbecile in you know sifting
through totally unreliable laughable
fishing expedition science cargo cult
science and picking it up as proof of
the efficacy of meditation getting all
kinds of facts that stuff never seduced
me and reading this book and thinking
about the history of science in this way
was part of that and then also when I
got involved with vegetarianism and
veganism which was earlier then I was
involved with Buddhism I guess again the
pseudoscience just did not interest me
it wasn't my reason for getting involved
it also wasn't a reason for me to to not
be involved but I mean you know freelee
and durianrider telling you that garlic
contains a neurotoxin they used to use
the word neurotoxin a lot more
frequently on that channel than they do
now they've responded to criticism
telling you that you can eat unlimited
calories as long as their carbohydrates
and never gain weight oh yeah and how
does that relate to the laws of physics
you know these are just a few examples
but obviously there's always been a lot
of pseudoscience floating around
veganism but of course also there's even
more pseudoscience in terms of the
justifications for eating meat and again
as with Sigmund Freud's theories you
know there's an enhanced placebo effect
of the core of that eating a ton of
protein from animal meat it does have an
effect it causes tingling if you like it
causes a subjective feeling many people
report a subjective feeling of wellness
basically whenever they eat something
that contains a ton of salt a ton of fat
and a ton of protein and many people get
that from from animal sources at obvious
there's a whole realm of pseudoscience
trying to prove to you that the ancient
Inuit were perfectly healthy before
Europeans arrived and started feeding
them plants as opposed to their you know
miraculously healthy diet of seal
blubber and raw fish
stuff is never gonna end but anyway
sorry if I spoke about the implications
of this in my life this video would be
much much longer this is just a short
note to say that yeah
this isn't just about cocaine direct
competition for the vegan cheetah by my
diet book by my yoga DVD by my t-shirts
will mana products don't